As in Terminologies,
there are 5 Flexible Single Master Operation (FSMO) roles :

Schema Master -->this role manages the read/write copy of the AD schema,
                 which defines all attributes that can apply to an object in AD.

Domain naming master -->Manages domain names and ensures that
                        2 domains of the same name are not name are not in same forest

Relative ID(RID) Master-->assigns blocks of RIDs to other DCs within domain that can be used for new objects.
                          RID master helps ensure that multiple objects are nt assigned same SID

PDC Emulator-->the host with this role would be the authoritative DC in the domain and respond to 
               authentication req,password changes and manage group policy objects(GPOs).
               also maintains time within the domain.

Infractructure Master-->this role translates GUIDs,SIDs and DNs between domains.
                        role is used to organize multiple domains in a single forest.
                        the Infractructure master helps them to communicate.

Domain and Forest Functional Levels :

FUNCTIONAL LEVELS DETERMINE THE VARIOUS FEATURES AND CAPABILITIES AVAILABLE IN ACTIVE DIRECTORY DOMAIN SERVICES(AD DS).
also used to specify which Windows Server OS can run DC in a domain or forest.

Trusts :

a Trust is used to establish forest-forest or domain-domain authentication,allowing users to 
access resources in another domain outside of the domain their resides in.

Type of Trust :

Parent-child -->Domains withis same forest.The child domain has a 2-way transitive trust with the parent domain.

Cross-Link -->a trust between child domains to spped up authentication

External -->a non-transitive trusst between 2 seprate domains in seprate forests which are not already joined by a forest trust.

Tree-root -->a 2-way transitive trust between a forest root domain and a new tree root domain.
            they are created by design when ou set up a new tree root domain within a forest.

Forest -->a transitive trust between 2 forest root domains.

