Some key Terminologies are:

Objects : an object can be defined as and resource present in the AD environment such as OUs etc.

Atributes : every object in AD has an associate attribute used to define character of given object.for example DNS,hostname.
            all attributes in AD have a LDAP(Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) name that can be later used to perform 
            LDAP queries such as displayname,Full name etc.

Schema : The Active Directory schema is essentialy a blueprint of the enterprise environment.
         it defines the type of oject that can exist in AD database and there attributes.
         when an object is created from a class it is called instantiation 
         and an object created from a specificate class is called an instance of the class.

Domain : a domain is a logical group of objects such as computers, OU's etc.
         We can think of each domain as a different city within a state or country. 
         Domains can operate entirely independently of one another or be connected via trust relationships.

Forest : a forest is collection of active directory domains that begins as a single root domain.
         it is the top-most container and contains everything in it.
         a forest can contain 1 or multiple domains,each domain act independently but may have various trust relations.

Tree : a tree is a collection of AD Domains that begin at a single root domain.a forest is collection of AD trees.
       each domain in the tree shares boundaries with other domains.a parent-child trust relation is formed when a domain is added to tree.
       2 trees in a forest cannot share a name(namespace).

Container : container object hold other objects and have a defined place in directory subtree hierarchy

Leaf : at end of subtree hierarchy.

GUID : Global unique identifier is a unique 128-bit value assigned when a group or user is created.
       the GUID value is unique across the enterprise,similare to MAC address
       it is stored in ObjectGUID attribute.
       GUID are used by AD to identify object internally.
       ObjectGUID never changes. 

Security Principles : are anything an OS can authenticate,include users,computers accounts or even process that run in context of a user account.
                      in AD security Principles are domain objects that can manage access to other resources within the domain.
       
Security Identifier : SID is used as a unique identifier for security principles or security groups.
                      Every group,account or process have its own unique SID , in AD is issued by the domain controller and stored in secure database.
                      a SID is only used once.even if the security principle is deleted it cannot be used again.
                      [ when a user logs in the system creates an access token for them containing SID.this token is later used to check what 
                        rights the user have  ]

Distinguished name : DN is describe the full path to an object in AD(such as: ou=employe,ou=it etc).
                
Relative Distinguished name : RDN is a single component in DN that identifies objects as unique from other objects at current level in naming hierarchy.
                              AD does not allow same name under parent controller but there can be 2 RDN with same name example:
                              [ user :cn=bjones,dc=dev,dc=inlanefreight,dc=local and 
                                 cn=bjones,dc=inlanefreight,dc=local are different ]

sAMAccountName : the user's login name,must be unique value and 20 or fewer char.

userPrinciplName : another way to identify users in AD.consists of prefix(user account name) and a suffix(domain name)
                   in format user@domain. not a mandatory attribute.
                
FSMO Roles : Flexible Single Master Operations Roles given DC(Domain Controllers) ability to continue authenticating users and granting permissions without interrupt.
             5 FSMO Roles are: Schema Master
                               Relative ID(RID) Master(one per domain)
                               Domain Naming Master(one of each per forest)
                               Primary Domain Controller(PDC) Emulator(one per domain)
                               Infrastructure Master(one per domain)
             All roles are assigned to 1st DC in forest root domain in a new AD forest.
             FSMO roles are typically set when DC are created but sysadmins can transfer roles later.

Global Catalog : GC is a domain controller that stores copies of ALL objects in AD forest.
                 GC stores a full copy of all objects in the current domain and a partial copy of objects theat belongs to other domains in the forest.
                 GC is feature that is enabled on a domain controller and performs following"
                 [ Authentication | Object search ]

RODC :Read-Only Domain Controller has a read-only AD database.

Replication : it happens in AD when AD objects are updated and transferred from one DC to another.
              Whenever a DC is added,connection objects are created to manage Replication between them.
              Made By KCC(Knowledge Consistency Checker) service present on all DC'sAMAccountName

Sevice Principal Name : SPN uniquely identifies a service instance.
                        Used by Karberos authentication to associate an instance of a service with a logon account,
                        allowing a client apllication to request the service to authenticare and account without needing to know the account name
            
Group Policy Object : GPO are virtual collections of policy settings.
                      Each GPO has a unique GUID.
                      Can contain local file system settings or AD settings
                      GPO settings can be applied to both user and computers withing the domain.
                
Access Control List : ACl is the ordered collection of ACE that apply to an object

Access Control Entries : each ACE is an ACL identifies a trustee and list the access rights that are allowed,denied or audited for the given truste.

DACL : Discretionary Access Control List defines which security principles are granted or denied access to an object.
       When a process tries to access a securable object,the system check the ACEs in the objects DACL to determine whether or not to grant access.
       if no DACl is found system grants full access to everyone
       but if DACL has no ACE entries the system denies all access attempts
       ACE % DACL are checked in sequence

System ACcess Control Lists : SACL allows for admin to log access attempts that are made to secure objects.
                              ACE specify the type of access attempts that cause the system to generate a recored in the security event log.

Fully Qualified Domain Name : FQDN is the complete name of a specific computer or host.
                              AS [hostName].[domainName].[tld].
                              Used to specify an objects location in tree hierarchy of DNS.
                    
Tombstone : it is a container object in AD that holds deleted AD objects.
            Tombstone Lifetime =60-180 days(default Depends on OS-v)
            Object is placed in Deleted Objects Container for the duration of Tombstone

AD Recycle Bin : introduced to facilate the recovery of deleted AD objects.

SYSVOL : the SYSVOL folder,or shares copies of public files in domain such as system policies,Group policy settings,logon/logoff scripts and other types of scripts.
         to perform various tasks in AD env.
    
AdminSDHolder : the AdminSDHolder object is used to manage ACLs for members of built-in groups in AD marked as privileged.
                it acts as a container that holds Security Descrptor applied to members of protected groups.

dsHeuristics : the dshEURISTICS ATTRIBUTE IS A STING VALUE SET ON THE Directory service object to define multiple forest-wide configuration settings.
               one of the settings is to exclude built-in groups from protected Groups list.

adminCount : the adminCount attribute determines whether or not the SDProp process protects a user.
               if the value is set to 0 or not specified,the user is not protected.

ADUC : Active Directory User and Computers is a GUI console commonly used for managing users,groups and contracts in AD.
       Changes made in ADUC can be done via PowerShell as well.

ADSI Edit :it is a GUI tool to manage objects in AD.it provides access to far more than is available in ADUC,
           Can also be used to set or delete any attribute available on an object,add,remove and move object as well.

sIDHistory :this attribute holds SIDs that an object was assigned previously.
            It is usually used in migrations so a user can maintain the same level of access when migrated from 1 domain to another.

NTDS.DIT :the NTDS file can be considered the heart of AD.
          it is stored on a DC at C:\Windows\NTDS\ and is a database that stores AD data such as information about users,group objects,group members etc.
       
MSBROWSE :it is a Microsoft networking protocol that was used in early version of WIndows-based local area networks to provide browsing service.

