One widely recognised class of microprocessor vulnerabilities partains to side-channel attacks.
these exploit indirect information leakages such as timing information,power consumption or electromagnetic emissions.
some infamous examples of side-channel attack is the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities discoved in 2018.

Specter:

Spectre is unique in that it breaks the isolation between different applications, allowing an attacker to trick error-free programs into leaking their secrets. Spectre takes advantage of the speculative execution technique used in modern microprocessors.

The Spectre vulnerability intentionally causes the processor to make incorrect predictions which initiate the speculative execution of a specially chosen set of instructions.

Meltdown:

Unlike Spectre, which breaks the isolation between different applications, Meltdown dissolves the more fundamental isolation between user applications and the operating system. 

The key to the Meltdown vulnerability is its exploitation of a feature of modern microprocessors known as out-of-order execution. This is a performance-enhancing technique in which the processor executes instructions not in the sequential order in which they appear in the program but in an order dictated by the availability of input data and execution units, thereby maximising resource utilisation and throughput.

This vulnerability is critical because it undermines kernel/user space isolation, a cornerstone of operating system security.

Mitigation strategies:

1.Retpoline:

Retpoline is an effective mitigation technique for Spectre. Replacing potentially hazardous indirect software branches prevents the speculative execution that Spectre exploits.

The fundamental idea behind retpoline is to modify the control flow so that speculative execution is avoided when encountering indirect branches.

2.Compiler Barriers:

Memory Barriers (or Fence Instructions) ensure that all load and store memory operations before the barrier are completed before any operations that come after the barrier.

Branch Prediction Barriers are used to inhibit speculative execution at certain points in the code where it could lead to a security vulnerability.

The purpose of these barriers is to enforce strict control over the flow of execution, disallowing the processor from executing instructions speculatively.

3.KPTI:

KPTI is the primary mitigation technique against Meltdown. It isolates the kernel's page table from the page tables of user space processes to prevent any potential information leakage from kernel memory. 

4.Microcode updates:

CPU manufacturers have issued Microcode updates to enable CPUs to implement more fine-grained control and restrictions on speculative execution.
