General Active Directory Hardening Measures:

1.LAPs:
Accounts can be set up to have their password rotated on a fixed interval (i.e., 12 hours, 24 hours, etc.).
This free tool can be beneficial in reducing the impact of an individual compromised host in an AD environment.

2.Audit Policy Settings (Logging and Monitoring)

3.Group Policy Security Settings:some Policies-->

    Account Policies - Manage how user accounts interact with the domain. These include the password policy, account lockout policy, and Kerberos-related settings such as the lifetime of Kerberos tickets

    Local Policies - These apply to a specific computer and include the security event audit policy, user rights assignments (user privileges on a host), and specific security settings such as the ability to install drivers, whether the administrator and guest accounts are enabled, renaming the guest and administrator accounts, preventing users from installing printers or using removable media, and a variety of network access and network security controls.

    Software Restriction Policies - Settings to control what software can be run on a host.

    Application Control Policies - Settings to control which applications can be run by certain users/groups. This may include blocking certain users from running all executables, Windows Installer files, scripts, etc. Administrators use AppLocker to restrict access to certain types of applications and files. It is not uncommon to see organizations block access to CMD and PowerShell (among other executables) for users that do not require them for their day-to-day job. These policies are imperfect and can often be bypassed but necessary for a defense-in-depth strategy.

    Advanced Audit Policy Configuration - A variety of settings that can be adjusted to audit activities such as file access or modification, account logon/logoff, policy changes, privilege usage, and more

4.Advanced Audit Policy

5.Update Management (SCCM/WSUS)

6.Group Managed Service Accounts (gMSA)

7.Security Groups

8.Built-in AD Security Groups

9.Account Separation

10.Password Complexity Policies + Passphrases + 2FA

11.Limiting Domain Admin Account Usage

12.Periodically Auditing and Removing Stale Users and Objects

13.Auditing Permissions and Access

14.Audit Policies & Logging

15.Using Restricted Groups

16.Limiting Server Roles

17.Limiting Local Admin and RDP Rights