Groups in Active Directory have two fundamental characteristics: type and scope. The group type defines the group's purpose, while the group scope shows how the group can be used within the domain or forest. When creating a new group, we must select a group type. There are two main types: security and distribution groups.

The Security groups type is primarily for ease of assigning permissions and rights to a collection of users instead of one at a time. They simplify management and reduce overhead when assigning permissions and rights for a given resource. All users added to a security group will inherit any permissions assigned to the group, making it easier to move users in and out of groups while leaving the group's permissions unchanged.

The Distribution groups type is used by email applications such as Microsoft Exchange to distribute messages to group members. They function much like mailing lists and allow for auto-adding emails in the "To" field when creating an email in Microsoft Outlook. This type of group cannot be used to assign permissions to resources in a domain environment.

There are three different group scopes that can be assigned when creating a new group.

Domain Local Group
Global Group
Universal Group

Domain Local Group
Domain local groups can only be used to manage permissions to domain resources in the domain where it was created. Local groups cannot be used in other domains but CAN contain users from OTHER domains. Local groups can be nested into (contained within) other local groups but NOT within global groups.

Global Group
Global groups can be used to grant access to resources in another domain. A global group can only contain accounts from the domain where it was created. Global groups can be added to both other global groups and local groups.

Universal Group
The universal group scope can be used to manage resources distributed across multiple domains and can be given permissions to any object within the same forest.

Built-in vs. Custom Groups
Several built-in security groups are created with a Domain Local Group scope when a domain is created. These groups are used for specific administrative purposes and are discussed more in the next section. It is important to note that only user accounts can be added to these built-in groups as they do not allow for group nesting (groups within groups). Some examples of built-in groups included Domain Admins, which is a Global security group and can only contain accounts from its own domain. If an organization wants to allow an account from domain B to perform administrative functions on a domain controller in domain A, the account would have to be added to the built-in Administrators group, which is a Domain Local group. 

Nested Group Membership
Nested group membership is an important concept in AD. As mentioned previously, a Domain Local Group can be a member of another Domain Local Group in the same domain. Through this membership, a user may inherit privileges not assigned directly to their account or even the group they are directly a member of, but rather the group that their group is a member of.

Below is an example of privileges inherited through nested group membership. Though DCorner is not a direct member of Helpdesk Level 1, their membership in Help Desk grants them the same privileges that any member of Helpdesk Level 1 has. In this case, the privilege would allow them to add a member to the Tier 1 Admins group (GenericWrite). If this group confers any elevated privileges in the domain, it would likely be a key target for a penetration tester. Here, we could add our user to the group and obtain privileges that members of the Tier 1 Admins group are granted, such as local administrator access to one or more hosts that could be used to further access.

Important Group Attributes
Like users, groups have many attributes. Some of the most important group attributes include:

cn: The cn or Common-Name is the name of the group in Active Directory Domain Services.

member: Which user, group, and contact objects are members of the group.

groupType: An integer that specifies the group type and scope.

memberOf: A listing of any groups that contain the group as a member (nested group membership).

objectSid: This is the security identifier or SID of the group, which is the unique value used to identify the group as a security principal.

